Zoning is a way that we can segment the fiber channel switch fabric.
Let's say for example you have a storage array that's connected to a fiber channel switch and the storage
array is dedicated to production data.
Now hosts that are dedicated to the development team should not be able to access this array.
So notice at the top left we have a dev ESX host at the bottom left.
We have a Prod. ESX host.
Maybe we only want to give the prod ESX host access to this fiber channel array.
So we'll connect the prod ESX host to a port on the fiber channel switch fabric.
That's part of the same zone.
As the port that connects to the Fiber Channel array in this case I made a blue.
So both the host and the array are connecting to port.
Let's just call it the Blues-L whereas the dev ESX host is connecting to a port that's in the Green
Zone.
That means the VSX I host can't communicate with this fiber channel storage array at all.
It's kind of like using the lands in an Ethernet switch.
It's a way that we can logically segment and separate devices that are connected to the same switch.